# Election_Analysis
**Purpose**
  The purpose of this analysis was to create code for an election and successfully create outputs to show the results for the election. In order to do this, we needed to use our knowledge on dictionaries and if statements in order to grab the data from a csv file and output it on a text file. Using python, we were able to count the amount of votes each candidate received during the election and determine the percentage of total votes each one received. Furthermore, we were tasked with organizing the date by counties. We were supposed to show the amount of votes each county received. Using the results, we were then able to conclude what county had the largest turn out of votes. From this data, we then created a text file to organize our data and state what we found.
**Election-Audit results**
 From the results, we found the total amount of votes that were received during the election. From the data we found that 369,711 votes were submitted during the election. The results should have shown that Denver received the most number of votes, receiving 82.8% of the total votes or 306,055 votes. The second biggest county was Jefferson County, who had 10.5% of the total votes, 33,855. Finally, Arapahoe received the lowest amount of total votes, with only 6.7% of total votes, 24,801. Next, we looked at the individual candidates and what each of them received. For the first candidate, Stockham received 85,213 of the total votes or 23.0%. DeGette received 272,892 amount of the total votes or 73.8%. Finally, Doane received 11,606 of the votes or 3.1%. From these results we can conclude that DeGette won the election, receiving majority of the votes. She received 272,892 votes or 73.8% of the total votes.
**Election Audit summary**
  The purpose of this analysis was to create code for an election csv to organize the data in a more presentable way. We were able to show the number of total votes and show how the votes were split up by county and by candidate. From the data we found who the winning candidate was, and which county received the largest amount of votes. This data can be used in a variety of ways. For example, by looking at the data we can see that Denver should have been the largest county to receive votes. This means for a candidate to be more successful they should be more focused on Denver. This is because Denver received more votes than both Arapahoe and Jefferson City combined. Additionally, the data can help determine how popular a particular candidate was in a given county. One could create additional code to show how many votes a particular candidate earned in each county. This can help a candidate understand if campaigning in a county is beneficial.
